In this video we're going to be
going over how to use the merge
tool, but to start with, let's
just toggle off the territorial
sea layer and we'll zoom in to
the clipped spawning grounds
layer so we can see clearly what
we're working with.
So the Blue Zone around the
island, this is the current MPA
no take zone that is in place.
But the spawning grounds here.
This is where we want to create
a new No Take zone during the
spawning season, December to
March.
So we want to merge this current
No take zone with the spawning
grounds so that we can create a
map that shows the No Take zones
that there will be during the
spawning months.
So let's run this merge tool.
We'll type Merge into the
geoprocessing window and open up
the tool.
And just a quick note to make
here, the Merge tool is similar
to the Union tool which we'll be
using later on in this course.
But the difference is Merge will
combine the features of
different layers together into
one layer, whereas Union will do
the same, but it will also
create new features for where
the features in the layers
overlap.
We only need the Merge tool for
what we're doing because we're
not interested in where the
spawning grounds overlap with
the current MPA zone.
So let's put in our input data
sets into this tool.
So we're going to be putting in
the clipped spawning grounds and
also the current MPA no take
layer.
And then for output data set, we
just need to decide where we
want to save the new layer that
this is going to create and what
we want to name it.
So let's just make sure it's
going into our Ge database and
we'll name it no take spawning
season and hit Save.
And then we don't need to worry
about the stuff that's
underneath field map.
This is just if you want to
choose what things are going to
be in the attribute table for
the merged data set.
So we'll hit run and now if we
turn off the MPA no take layer
and the clip spawning grounds
layer, we can see that we now
have a layer that has merged the
spawning grounds and the current
MPA together.
So we can open up the attribute
table for this layer and we'll
see that there's four rows for
each Polygon.
And on our map there's the four
different polygons, the three
spawning grounds, and the MPA
Polygon, and so it's merged the
data in the table as well.
So that's how to run the merge
tool in Arc GIS and just
remember to hit save.